docs: add LangSmith Remote MCP page, deprecate standalone server (#3910)
langchain-ai/docs: src/langsmith/langsmith-remote-mcp.mdx

---
title: LangSmith Remote MCP
description: Connect MCP-compatible clients to LangSmith over OAuth—no API key, no self-hosting, no header configuration.
---

The LangSmith Remote MCP is a [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction) (MCP) server hosted by LangSmith. It exposes the same tools as the [standalone LangSmith MCP Server](/langsmith/langsmith-mcp-server) (conversation history, prompts, runs and traces, datasets, experiments, billing) but with OAuth-based authentication, so MCP-compatible clients connect directly without an API key, a separate deployment, or any header configuration.

<Note>

> **LangSmith Cloud (SaaS) only.** The Remote MCP is currently available only on LangSmith Cloud (`api.smith.langchain.com` and `eu.api.smith.langchain.com`). [Self-hosted LangSmith](/langsmith/self-hosted) deployments should continue to use the [standalone LangSmith MCP Server](/langsmith/langsmith-mcp-server).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**LangSmith Cloud (SaaS) only.** The Remote MCP is available only on LangSmith Cloud (`api.smith.langchain.com` and `eu.api.smith.langchain.com`). [Self-hosted LangSmith](/langsmith/self-hosted) deployments should continue to use the [standalone LangSmith MCP Server](/langsmith/langsmith-mcp-server).
```

Reviewer: We can just update if more deployments are added rather than signaling with "currently"

</Note>

## Endpoints

| Region | URL |
|--------|-----|
| Cloud (US) | `https://api.smith.langchain.com/mcp` |
| Cloud (EU) | `https://eu.api.smith.langchain.com/mcp` |

> The server discovers the rest of its OAuth metadata via [RFC 8414](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8414) at `/.well-known/oauth-authorization-server` on the same host, so a compliant MCP client only needs the URL above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The server discovers the rest of its OAuth metadata via [RFC 8414](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8414) at `/.well-known/oauth-authorization-server` on the same host, so a compliant MCP client only needs the URL in the table.
```

Just trying to avoid directional language for screen reader accessibility and such

## Authentication

Authentication uses OAuth 2.1 with [Dynamic Client Registration (RFC 7591)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7591). Compatible MCP clients register themselves automatically on first use—there is no client ID to provision and no API key to manage.

After registration:

1. The client opens an authorization URL in your browser.
2. You log in to LangSmith (or use an existing session) and consent.
3. The client receives an access token and refresh token.
4. The access token is automatically refreshed by the client when it expires.

> The session is scoped to your LangSmith user and workspace permissions—calls through the MCP server can only see what your account is permitted to see.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The session is scoped to your LangSmith user and workspace permissions—calls through the MCP server can only view what your account is permitted to view.
```
That ok?

## Quickstart

### Claude Code

Add the server to your project's `.mcp.json` (or run `claude mcp add --transport http -s user langsmith https://api.smith.langchain.com/mcp` to install it user-wide):

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "langsmith": {
      "type": "http",
      "url": "https://api.smith.langchain.com/mcp"
    }
  }
}
```

Then run `/mcp` and select **langsmith** to complete the OAuth flow. Tools become available as `mcp__langsmith__<tool_name>`.

### Cursor

Add to your Cursor `mcp.json`:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "LangSmith": {
      "url": "https://api.smith.langchain.com/mcp"
    }
  }
}
```

Cursor will prompt you to complete the OAuth flow on first use.

### Other clients

Any MCP client supporting the [Streamable HTTP transport](https://spec.modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-03-26/basic/transports/#streamable-http) and OAuth 2.1 with dynamic client registration can connect with just the URL above.

## Known client incompatibilities

<Note>

> **OpenAI Codex CLI** does not currently work with the LangSmith Remote MCP. Codex omits the [RFC 8707](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8707) `resource` parameter required by the [MCP authorization spec](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/draft/basic/authorization) during the OAuth flow, so login appears to succeed but the issued token is not bound to the LangSmith MCP and `initialize` fails with an auth-required error. Tracked upstream in [openai/codex#20729](https://github.com/openai/codex/issues/20729) (token exchange) and [openai/codex#13891](https://github.com/openai/codex/issues/13891) (authorize request). Until those land, use the [LangSmith CLI](/langsmith/langsmith-cli) from Codex—it covers the same projects, traces, runs, datasets, experiments, and threads surface as the MCP server, with native OAuth login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**OpenAI Codex CLI** does not work with the LangSmith Remote MCP. Codex omits the [RFC 8707](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8707) `resource` parameter required by the [MCP authorization spec](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/draft/basic/authorization) during the OAuth flow, so login appears to succeed but the issued token is not bound to the LangSmith MCP and `initialize` fails with an auth-required error. Two upstream issues affect token exchange and authorize requests in Codex (refer to [openai/codex#20729](https://github.com/openai/codex/issues/20729) and [openai/codex#13891](https://github.com/openai/codex/issues/13891)). In the meantime, use the [LangSmith CLI](vscode-webview://10gvgke5c00vonuvk2psr9q89hcqv6q2583jm92ucepld5716i57/langsmith/langsmith-cli) from Codex—it supports the same projects, traces, runs, datasets, experiments, and threads as the MCP server, with native OAuth login.
```
